Now, defining features in an image, on the
other hand, is a much more difficult and involved task and has been a defining
issue of the limitations of our Traditional Machine Learning techniques that Deep Learning
has now done a good job of addressing. So suppose you want to determine if an image
is a cat or a dog, so what features should we use? For images, the data is taken as numerical
data to reference the coloring of each individual pixel within our image. So a pixel then could be used as a feature. So we saw the features before in our dataset. But if you imagine even a small image will
have 256 by 256 pixels, which will come out to
over 65,000 pixels. Sixty five thousand
pixels mean 65,000 features which is a huge amount of features to be working with. Another issue is that using
each pixel as an individual, you lose the spatial relationship to the pixels around it. In other words, the
information of a pixel makes sense relative to
its surrounding pixels. So you have the
different pixels that make up the nose perhaps, or the different pixels
that make up the eyes, and then separating
that out according to where they are in
relation to the face, so on and so forth. This is where Deep
Learning can come in. Deep Learning techniques
will give you the capability to learn
these features on its own and combine these pixels to define these spatial
relationships. So let's briefly dive into
what Deep Learning is. Deep learning is going to be Machine Learning that involves using very complicated models called deep neural networks. As discussed, this
is, like I just said, going to be a subset
of Machine Learning. So then the models
themselves will be able to determine the
best representation of our original data. In classic Machine Learning, humans have to come up with these features and
this will allow us to solve complex problems such as what we just saw with
the image classification. Deep Learning is the
cutting edge and is where most of Machine
Learning research is focused as blown away
the performance of other algorithms when you're dealing with larger datasets. But it is very important
to note that you'll often be working with smaller datasets, and standard Machine
Learning algorithms will often perform significantly better than working with
Deep Learning techniques. Also, if the data is
changing a lot over time and you don't
have a steady dataset, again Machine Learning will
probably do a better job of actually being able to have
better performance over time. So let's briefly discuss
some differences between the classic Machine Learning Techniques and Deep Learning. So as discussed in the Classical
Machine Learning model, we are going to have to define
these features ourselves a priority before we feed the
data to our actual model, so determining the features
that make up the nose, the eyes, so on and so forth. We can then use the features and include them in a Machine
Learning algorithm. If a data scientist is lucky, he may be able to
guess good features, but this is a really
challenging to do well. Then they can use that to predict that this is a picture of Arjun. Now Deep Learning will combine
this two-step process. The neural network receives these pixels of an
image as an input. The neural network learns how to extract these features
that are meaningful from the image by combining
them together in different complex
combinations. Now, these features
may not always make much sense when we
try to interpret them in these
intermediate layers. But ideally, they will first highlight edges and then combine those edges to make up shapes
like nose, eyes, lips. But whether or not the
intermediate steps are interpretable, they can be very useful for
completing tasks such as image classification
and coming up with the intermediate
feature engineering steps, and then eventually
predicting Arjun. Now, that's the end
of this section. In the next section, we will start to go through
the history of Artificial Intelligence and gain insights as to how we got
to this point in history, where Artificial Intelligence
is now being thought of as the new electricity.